In the previous step we looked at some static filtering. So static filtering I mean a field I don't want it to ever come in my response
at all.
So I can use static filtering annotations like JSON ignore or I can define the JSON ignore
properties on the some bean, I’d be able to make sure that this field never comes in my response.
The other option is dynamic filtering.
What I would say is sometimes for some requests I would want to send these two fields alone and for
other requests I would want to send these two fields.
So in specific requests I don’t want to send one. In specific request I don’t want to send field three.
How do we be able to do that?
That's basically where the concept of dynamic filtering comes. With dynamic filtering
we cannot configure filtering directly on the bean.
What we’d need to do is, we need to start configuring the filtering where they’re retrieving the values.
What I'll do is I’ll create a new local variable for this. I’ll say some bean is equal to new some bean. Now, I can so some filtering
in here.
So what I would want to do in this specific request is I would want to only send field one and field
two. I don't want to send field three.
So the only values I would want to map is field 1 and field two.
I don't want to send field three as part of the filtering response. Over here I'd want to send field two and field three.
only these two values I would want to send in the response.
If you look at the current responses which are coming back, when I call filtering I'm getting all three
values back because there is no static filtering
defines. I have removed all that stuff. And same is the case with filtering. It returns all the three fields
and their values back.
I would want to configure something to enable me only to send field one and field two for filtering and
field two and field three for filtering list.
How do I do that?
There is a class called Mapping Jackson value. To this mapping Jackson value class, mapping Jackson value. I’ll import
this in. Control space.
Import it in please. We can create an instance of the mapping value class.
And if you look at the code for the mapping value class you'd see that there is something called filters
that you can configure.
So we’ll create a mapping Jackson value class and configure a filter.
Let's see how to do that.
So, let's create a mapping Jackson value class.
One of the things you can see is it needs a construct argument.
That's basically the bean that you would want to pass in.
So I would want to create a mapping Jackson value for this particular bean. Over here you can see that you
can configure the filters.
So I would want to configure the filters but to configure the filters I would need to actually create
them. So first
I’ll create a local variable, filters. So we would need to now configure the filters.
What we would want to do is we would want to only send field one and field two. How do we create a filter
of that kind?
If I look at the class hierarchy of filter provider what you’d see is there is just one implementation
of it.
So its simple filter provider. Filter provider is an abstract class and we want to make use the simple filter
provider which is a concrete implementation of it.
I’ll say new simple filter provider. Let’s organise the imports to import it in. And in here,
there is a method to add a filter. What we want to do is we would want to create a simple bean property
filter. Id comma simple bean filter. And I can give any name in here. We would need to use this a little
later. We'll see where.
So for now, I would call this some bean filter because this is doing filtering on the some bean. I would call
this some bean filter.
And over here you would see that I would need to create an instance of a filter. So I’d need to define
the filter. So I’ll create a local variable
again. If you look at the simple bean property filter class there are a set of static methods.
So I can say simple bean filter properly filter dot filter out all things except for what fields do you want
to send?
I’m saying simple bean property filter, filter out everything except for these two fields.
So what does it do?
The simple bean property filter, as it is configured right know what it will do is it will filter
all the fields in the response except for field 1 and field 2.
Let's quickly take a look at what we wanted to do again.
So we want to send field 1 and 2 in the response.
So we created a simple bean property filter saying I want to filter out
all the other fields except for field one and field two.
So I only want to send field one and field two in the response and I configure a filter provider with
this specific filters. For this filter provider I added this filter and I created a mapping Jackson
value with the bean I would want to send back and I configure this as the filter.
While this kind of setup looks a little complicated when you try and code this,
this would be a really simple thing to do.
The last thing I would want to do is instead of returning the some bean actually what we would need to now return is the mapping
Jackson value.
So now I would return the mapping Jackson value. And obviously the return type is declared as some bean. I’ll change
it to mapping Jackson value. That’s it.
I'm saving this. Let’s execute filtering. Filtering is still returning field one value one, field two value two, field three
value three. But we have configured a filter.
What's going wrong?
Actually there's one more step that you’d need to do.
This is a common mistake that a lot of developers do when they're adding in a filter.
One of the important things is the list of valid filters should be defined on the bean.
So if you don't define some bean filter on the bean then whatever you’ve defined in this filter will not be executed
at all.
So I have to go to the some bean and I have to define a filter in here. How do we do that?
It's very simple. It's called JSON filter and you can say some bean filter. I’ll import it in.
And now you can send the request and you're seeing that only field one and field two are part of the
response. Field three is no longer part of the response.
And now I can go and change the other method as well.
What did we want to do in this specific method? What did we want to return? What we wanted to send is only field
two and field three back.
So let's go ahead and do that. I’ll actually,
Let's start with taking this thing into a variable. So I'll say alt shift L, command shift L and I would say
list. For now let's just copy paste that in and over here we would not need to use some bean but we
would actually need to use the list. Over here,
one more thing that we wanted to do is we wanted to filter.
We want to only have field two and field three in the response.
Let's save that out and send the request out.  Filtering is returning field one and field two and filtering list
is returning
an error. That's because we're actually not returning the list back. So we're just returning a list back. We
have not returned the mapping back yet. So it’s saying on the bean
Also there is something called some bean filter.
But actually in the return thing which we return back we did not return the filter back.
So let's now return the mapping. Once you update the mapping there will be a compilation error because we need
to change the return type of the method. So change the method return type to use mapping Jackson value.
And you can save this down. And now I can go ahead and send the request out.
Now you would see that you are only seeing field two and field three in the response.
That's cool.
So when I'm sending filtering I see a different set of fields. Field one and field two. When I'm executing
a filtering list,
I'm seeing a different set of fields. Field two and field three. And that's pretty cool, isn't it?
So this is dynamic filtering.
There is some duplication between these two methods.
Right?
So the way we're creating the filters, setting into filters, setting it into mapping, I can actually
eliminate the duplication and create a simple method for that.
So I’ll leave that as an exercise for you to try.
So how do you eliminate all the duplication which is present between these two methods.
In the last two steps, we looked at
filtering. In the first step we looked at static filtering and in the second step now we are actually looking
at Dynamic filtering.
Until the next step, bye-bye.